README.md, before:

# ehough/docker-kodi

Dockerized Kodi with audio and video.

![Kodi screenshot](https://kodi.wiki/images/3/33/Estuary-home.jpg "Kodi screenshot")

## Features

* fully-functional Kodi installation in a Docker container
* **audio** ([ALSA or PulseAudio](https://kodi.wiki/view/Linux_audio)) and **video** (with optional OpenGL hardware 
  video acceleration) via [x11docker](https://github.com/mviereck/x11docker/)
* simple, Ubuntu-based image that adheres to the [official Kodi installation instructions](https://kodi.wiki/view/HOW-TO:Install_Kodi_for_Linux#Installing_Kodi_on_Ubuntu-based_distributions)
* clean shutdown of Kodi when its container is terminated

## Host Prerequisites

The host system will need the following:

1. **Linux** and [**Docker**](https://www.docker.com)

   Though not extensively tested yet, this image should work on any Linux distribution with a functional
   Docker installation.
   
1. **A connected display and speaker(s)**

   If you're looking for a headless Kodi installation, look elsewhere!

1. **[X](https://www.x.org/) or [Wayland](https://wayland.freedesktop.org/)**

   Ensure that the packages for an X or Wayland server are present on the Docker host. Please consult your OS's 
   documentation if you're not sure what to install. A display server does *not* need to be running ahead of time.

1. **[x11docker](https://github.com/mviereck/x11docker/)**

   `x11docker` allows Docker-based applications to utilize X and/or Wayland on the host. Please follow the `x11docker` 
   [installation instructions](https://github.com/mviereck/x11docker#installation) and ensure that you have a 
   [working setup](https://github.com/mviereck/x11docker#examples) on the Docker host.
       
## Usage

### Starting Kodi

Use `x11docker` to start your desired [Kodi image](#image-tags). Detailing the myriad of `x11docker` options is beyond 
the scope of this document. Please consult the [`x11docker` documentation](https://github.com/mviereck/x11docker/) to 
find the set of options that work for your system.

Below is an example command (split into multiple lines for clarity) that starts Kodi on a fresh X.Org X server on 
virtual terminal 7, with ALSA sound, no window manager, hardware video acceleration, a persistent Kodi home directory, 
and a shared read-only Docker volume for media files:

    $ x11docker --xorg                                \
                --vt 7                                \
                --alsa                                \
                --wm none                             \                
                --gpu                                 \
                --homedir /host/path/to/kodi/home     \
                -- "-v /host/path/to/media:/media:ro" \
                erichough/kodi:alsa
           
Note that the optional argument passed after `--`, which contains additional arguments to `docker run`, needs to be 
enclosed in quotes.
           
By default, the container's entry point will call `kodi-standalone` to start Kodi, which should work well for most 
installations. If you would like to customize this command, you can utilize the environment variable `KODI_COMMAND`.
This provides the capability to call additional scripts or processes before starting Kodi. For example, to reduce the 
priority of the Kodi process:

    $ x11docker ... -- '--cap-add SYS_NICE --env KODI_COMMAND="nice kodi-standalone"' erichough/kodi

### Stopping Kodi

There are two ways to stop the running Kodi container:

1. **(Preferred) Send `SIGHUP` or `SIGTERM` to the `x11docker` process.** 

       $ kill -SIGTERM <pid>

   **WARNING**: Use *only* `SIGHUP` or `SIGTERM`. Do not use `Ctrl-C` or send any other signal as this can cause Kodi 
   to crash spectacularly.
   
1. **`docker stop`** the Kodi container

       $ docker stop <containerid>
       
When the container receives a signal to terminate, from either of the two means above, it will ask Kodi to shut down
gracefully and wait for up to 10 seconds before timing out and allowing Docker to forcefully terminate the container. 
Usually Kodi only takes a few seconds to shut down, so 10 seconds should be plenty of time for most installations. 
However if you would like to extend this timeout for any reason, you can utilize the environment variable 
`KODI_QUIT_TIMEOUT`. For example, to wait 120 seconds before timing out:

    $ x11docker ... -- '--env KODI_QUIT_TIMEOUT=120' erichough/kodi
    
Note that if you increase this timeout *and* you stop Kodi via `docker stop`, you should use the `--time` option
to match your desired timeout. e.g.

    $ docker stop --time=120 <containerid>
    
Otherwise, Docker will forcefully kill the container after only 10 seconds and your desired timeout will have no effect.
For this reason, and for simplicity's sake, it's better to signal `x11docker` instead of using `docker stop`.

### Example systemd Service Unit

    [Unit]
    Description=Dockerized Kodi
    Requires=docker.service
    After=network.target docker.service
    
    [Service]
    ExecStart=/usr/bin/x11docker ... erichough/kodi
    Restart=always
    
    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target

## Image Tags

|                  | ALSA | PulseAudio |
|------------------|------|------------|
| **Kodi Krypton** | <ul><li>`erichough/kodi:latest`</li><li>`erichough/kodi:alsa`</li><li>`erichough/kodi:alsa-latest`</li><li>`erichough/kodi:alsa-krypton`</li></ul>  | <ul><li>`erichough/kodi:pulseaudio`</li><li>`erichough/kodi:pulseaudio-latest`</li><li>`erichough/kodi:pulseaudio-krypton`</li></ul>        |
|                  |      |            |

## Contributing

Constructive criticism and contributions are welcome! Please 
[submit an issue](https://github.com/ehough/docker-kodi/issues/new) or 
[pull request](https://github.com/ehough/docker-kodi/compare).

## Future Work

* Kodi PVR support

Commit message:

more bug fixes regarding stopping the container

README.md, after:

# ehough/docker-kodi

Dockerized Kodi with audio and video.

![Kodi screenshot](https://kodi.wiki/images/3/33/Estuary-home.jpg "Kodi screenshot")

## Features

* fully-functional Kodi installation in a Docker container
* **audio** ([ALSA or PulseAudio](https://kodi.wiki/view/Linux_audio)) and **video** (with optional OpenGL hardware 
  video acceleration) via [x11docker](https://github.com/mviereck/x11docker/)
* simple, Ubuntu-based image that adheres to the [official Kodi installation instructions](https://kodi.wiki/view/HOW-TO:Install_Kodi_for_Linux#Installing_Kodi_on_Ubuntu-based_distributions)
* clean shutdown of Kodi when its container is terminated

## Host Prerequisites

The host system will need the following:

1. **Linux** and [**Docker**](https://www.docker.com)

   Though not extensively tested yet, this image should work on any Linux distribution with a functional
   Docker installation.
   
1. **A connected display and speaker(s)**

   If you're looking for a headless Kodi installation, look elsewhere!

1. **[X](https://www.x.org/) or [Wayland](https://wayland.freedesktop.org/)**

   Ensure that the packages for an X or Wayland server are present on the Docker host. Please consult your OS's 
   documentation if you're not sure what to install. A display server does *not* need to be running ahead of time.

1. **[x11docker](https://github.com/mviereck/x11docker/)**

   `x11docker` allows Docker-based applications to utilize X and/or Wayland on the host. Please follow the `x11docker` 
   [installation instructions](https://github.com/mviereck/x11docker#installation) and ensure that you have a 
   [working setup](https://github.com/mviereck/x11docker#examples) on the Docker host.
       
## Usage

### Starting Kodi

Use `x11docker` to start your desired [Kodi image](#image-tags). Detailing the myriad of `x11docker` options is beyond 
the scope of this document. Please consult the [`x11docker` documentation](https://github.com/mviereck/x11docker/) to 
find the set of options that work for your system.

Below is an example command (split into multiple lines for clarity) that starts Kodi on a fresh X.Org X server on 
virtual terminal 7, with ALSA sound, no window manager, hardware video acceleration, a persistent Kodi home directory, 
and a shared read-only Docker volume for media files:

    $ x11docker --xorg                                \
                --vt 7                                \
                --alsa                                \
                --wm none                             \                
                --gpu                                 \
                --homedir /host/path/to/kodi/home     \
                -- "-v /host/path/to/media:/media:ro" \
                erichough/kodi:alsa
           
Note that the optional argument passed after `--`, which contains additional arguments to `docker run`, needs to be 
enclosed in quotes.
           
By default, the container's entry point will call `kodi-standalone` to start Kodi, which should work well for most 
installations. If you would like to customize this command, you can utilize the environment variable `KODI_COMMAND`.
This provides the capability to call additional scripts or processes before starting Kodi. For example, to reduce the 
priority of the Kodi process:

    $ x11docker ... -- '--cap-add SYS_NICE --env KODI_COMMAND="nice kodi-standalone"' erichough/kodi

### Stopping Kodi

You should use `docker stop` to stop the container.
   
    $ docker stop <containerid>
       
When the container receives a signal to terminate, it will ask Kodi to shut down gracefully and wait for up to 10 
seconds before timing out and allowing Docker to forcefully terminate the container. Usually Kodi only takes a few 
seconds to shut down, so 10 seconds should be plenty of time for most installations. However if you would like to extend 
this timeout for any reason, you can utilize the environment variable `KODI_QUIT_TIMEOUT`. For example, to wait 120 
seconds before timing out:

    $ x11docker ... -- '--env KODI_QUIT_TIMEOUT=120' erichough/kodi
    
Note that if you increase this timeout, you should use the `--time` option for `docker stop` to match your desired
timeout. e.g.

    $ docker stop --time=120 <containerid>
    
Otherwise, Docker will forcefully kill the container after only 10 seconds and your desired timeout will have no effect.

**WARNING**. If you kill the `x11docker` process directly without stopping the container first, Kodi will [crash
spectacularly](https://github.com/mviereck/x11docker/issues/37).

### Example systemd Service Unit

    [Unit]
    Description=Dockerized Kodi
    Requires=docker.service
    After=network.target docker.service
    
    [Service]
    Environment=KODI_IMAGE=erichough/kodi
    ExecStart=/usr/bin/x11docker ... ${KODI_IMAGE}
    
    # see https://github.com/mviereck/x11docker/issues/37 for an explanation on why this is necessary
    ExecStop=/bin/sh -c 'echo "will stop ${KODI_IMAGE}" && /usr/bin/docker stop $(/usr/bin/docker ps -q --filter name=x11docker_X --filter name=$(echo ${KODI_IMAGE} | tr / - | tr : - ) --filter status=running)'
    Restart=always
    
    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target

## Image Tags

|                  | ALSA | PulseAudio |
|------------------|------|------------|
| **Kodi Krypton** | <ul><li>`erichough/kodi:latest`</li><li>`erichough/kodi:alsa`</li><li>`erichough/kodi:alsa-latest`</li><li>`erichough/kodi:alsa-krypton`</li></ul>  | <ul><li>`erichough/kodi:pulseaudio`</li><li>`erichough/kodi:pulseaudio-latest`</li><li>`erichough/kodi:pulseaudio-krypton`</li></ul>        |
|                  |      |            |

## Contributing

Constructive criticism and contributions are welcome! Please 
[submit an issue](https://github.com/ehough/docker-kodi/issues/new) or 
[pull request](https://github.com/ehough/docker-kodi/compare).

## Future Work

* Kodi PVR support
